# Udacity Data Visualization Review
**Format:** Each of the Udacity classes consists of several lessons, each with a number of "concepts". Instruction is generally provided in short (1-6 minutes) videos, sometimes with supporting text. Video instruction is often followed with supplemental text, if needed, and practical exercises using plugins to the Udacity site. This allows students to perform operations demonstrated in the video lecture without installing additional software on their own computers. Quizzes usually accompany these practical exercises to provide a "check" that students are executing the demonstrated concepts correctly. 

**Prior Experience With Subject:** My experience with generating data visualizations prior to this program was in Excel or in math classes. As mentioned previously, each of the DAND projects require polished data visualizations in Python, though the classes did not provide much in the way of direction on how to do this prior to this final class of the NanoDegree. I had learned enough along the way to do some basic pythonic data visualization going into this class, though it still felt very unclear to me.  

## Class Grade (1-10): **6**
I was excited going into this class, both because it was the last class of the NanoDegree, the class estimated hours seemed very short, and that I was finally going to understand plotting with seaborn and matplotlib, where I had previously felt like I was sort of aimlessly mucking around with them. In terms of meeting my expectations, this class was a bit of a mixed bag. This is a very deep class that does a great job overall of working from simple examples to more complex examples, as it takes a fairly in-depth look at various kinds of univariate, bivariate, and multivariate plots. The class principally relies on two example datasets for generating visualizations, and each plot type includes a video demonstration in which visualization is done with scripting in a Jupyter Notebook. 

Below each of these videos is then a supplemental text which walks through the scripting in the video, the code used in the video, and occasionally brings up other useful elements or tips for your scripting & visualization. These were fantastic resources, as they really explained the code in depth if I didn't understand the demonstration in the video, and it allowed me to get hands on with the code in my own Jupyter Notebook relatively easily. Because these supplemental texts used the example datasets and generated visualiations themselves, I could then compare my own results to make sure that I was on the right track.  (I can't recommend this enough for other students - being able to easily refer to your notes is extremely useful!) This made for slow going, which was mildly annoying because the Udacity "estimated time" for each lesson seemed like a massive underestimate relative to time spent on previous classes. Nonetheless, I was still making progress and was fairly happy with the class. 

Unfortunately, about halfway through the class, these supplemental texts suddenly became a lot less useful. Where they were previously working through examples in the video demonstration (or sometimes going further) and always using the example data sets, they soon began using a complete other dataset with placeholder values like 'x_val_1' and such, explaining that 'x_val_1' is a categorical data type or 'y_val_3' is a float, etc. While I could sometimes work my way through these examples by plugging in appropriate values from the example datasets, this was extremely frustrating. First of all, because these examples no longer used the same dataset as myself, I couldn't "check my work" and make sure that my resulting plot looked like the one generated in the supplemental text. Secondly, learners work better with understandable and coherent examples (especially when working with data and relationships) where we can actually grasp what each variable means, rather than place holders with no conceptual value. Finally, the very fact that Udacity had provided these high-quality texts and examples in the first half of this class indicates that they realize they had value, so to take those away partway through the course (and as the plots are increasing in complexity) comes off very, very poorly to the student making use of them.

In terms of teaching how to use and generate a wide variety of plots, this class was overall quite successful. I would've liked a little bit more of a breakdown on specific use cases for some of these, but I was pretty happy with learning various plotting functions in both seaborn and matplotlib. Something that I do think was not covered in enough depth was the relationship between both pandas and seaborn interact with matplotlib. This was especially confusing to me earlier on in the DAND program, because I had no idea why a function in one package would be able to be interacted with by a function from another package. Going further with this, I think more detail on polishing with matplotlib would be useful as well. Titles and axis labels and such are all covered, but the kind of finicky (but not uncommon) things like moving a legend around so its not on top of your plotted data are not covered. At least getting into detailed discussions of how the different objects in matplotlib interact with each other would give students a direction to start looking when they run into these problems in the future. 

One thing that this class does do much better than the last few classes in the DAND program is avoid educating the student by providing a link to a readme, StackOverflow, etc. and calling that "good enough". In fact, perhaps the highlight of the entire Data Analyst NanoDegree was when, after several classes providing exactly this type of education, this class specifically calls out why doing this sort of thing is inadequate and inappropriate and emphasizes that it is not going to do this - and generally sticks to it! I love that Udacity's instructors recognize this is a problem, though it does beg the question of why this is so prevalent in the previous two classes in this program.

## Project Grade (1-10): **7**
### Project: *Communicate Data Findings*
### Number of times project was kicked back for changes: **0**
This project was very open ended, requiring students to select a dataset (several are provided, or the student may use one of their own, so long as it meets certain criteria) and then do an exploratory data analysis before providing an explanatory data analysis, complete with slideshow from Jupyter Notebook. I actually found this fairly challenging, as I ended up selecting a dataset about peer-to-peer lending which I really didn't know much about. The absence of any particular goal or structure (or even personal knowledge about P2P lending) led to me doing a *lot* of useless exploratory data analysis. That was somewhat frustrating, but perhaps that was most the realistic part of the entire project! 

In the end, I was fairly happy with the project, especially once I'd explored such to find some interesting patterns in the data and settled on a direction that I wanted to go with my analysis. I actually learned a lot about P2P lending in the process and found the entire thing quite interesting. I did get somewhat frustrated with the project near the end, however, with the process of creating a slide deck in Jupyter Notebook. The project instructions specify using a .tpl template file with nbconvert to create the slide deck, but after doing some research when I couldn't get it to work, I found out that nbconvert hasn't been playing nicely with this template file for months. This is acknowledged on the Knowledge Forum and workarounds are provided by mentors there, but the original problem still persists in the project assignment, creating unnecessary frustration for students.  

## Overall Grade (1-10): **6**
Where I felt like the last two classes in particular felt as if they were older classes in need of some significant redesign, this class felt much more polished and updated. In fact, the polish present in this course really underlined the "rough draft" nature of the Practical Statistics and Data Wrangling courses and just how badly they were in need of some serious care. Continuing the metaphor, I'd say that this is much better than a rough draft, though its not *quiiiite* ready to get sent to the publisher either.

There's a lot of good here, such as the excellent supplemental texts which accompany each video demonstration. Unfortunately, there's also significant problems here, such as those supplemental texts becoming useless as the content gets more complex, where Udacity seems to have made a negative change for no discernible reason. With a few changes, this could really be an excellent online class, and I hope Udacity corrects these issues because students deserve to receive a high quality education in exchange for their money. 