# Udacity Welcome to the NanoDegree Program Review
**Format:** I didn't even initially consider this to be a "class" because it was very short and functions more like an orientation component to the Data Analysis NanoDegree (DAND) than anything else. Things like "Here's what a data scientist does" and "here's how you can get help if you're not understanding something". However, it does include a project, so I'm including it here as an individual review. The project appears to exist as a skills check before getting started with the rest of the DAND program.

**Prior Experience With Subject:** This is the first class in the Data Analysis NanoDegree, which I began after I completed the recommended Programming for Data Science with Python NanoDegree (PDSND). This class appears to be largely functioning as a knowledge check for the skills from the PDSND program, before you jump into the deeper end with the DAND program. As I had just completed the PDSND program, I was definitely prepared for this class decently. 

## Class Grade (1-10): **N/A**
As mentioned, this class doesn't really contain any instruction and functions more like a "you must be this tall to ride" gate for the DAND program. I think this is because the DAND program used to be larger, broken into two specific terms. A couple years ago, the DAND program was instead finetuned to be a single term focusing more on the data analysis, and the PDSND program took some of the classes that were removed from the DAND program. This set up the PDSND program as a recommended pre-requisite, but not overtly required. In the absence of such a forced prerequisite, this would be a way to make sure the student has the basic skills before getting into the meat of the DAND program.  

## Project Grade (1-10): **7**
### Project: *Explore Weather Trends*
### Number of times project was kicked back for changes: **0**
This project involves looking at temperature data going backwards for the world at large and for many large cities across the world (some go back over 200 years) to look at how trends in temperature compare globally and to the nearest city in your local area and throw together a brief presentation on your findings. For any student who had already completed the PDSND program, this should be fairly easy. I liked that the project invites further awareness of trends in global warming. With regard to the project's use as a "skill check" for continuing on in the program, I'm uncertain. The DAND program heavily uses dataframes in pandas and data visualization in various packages (this project directs the student to use Excel), so these skills aren't assessed by the project. If a student struggles with this project, they'll certainly struggle elsewhere in the course, but I'm not confident that a student successfully completing this project is necessarily adequately ready for the rest of this program without doing some serious learning in pandas, in particular. I can't judge this project too harshly for that, but it does make me wonder why it's even present.

## Overall Grade (1-10): **7**
Obviously, this grade is based only on the project, which I'm somewhat doubtful of functioning as a particular "skill check" upon entry to the program. You can't check your skill until you've already paid for the product, which seems problematic. It is worth noting, however, that the prerequisite lessons from the PDSND program are included in the "extracirricular" tab of the Data Analysis program, meaning students do have access to these resources. However, this access does not include the projects associated with this classes - to get those, a student must enroll in the PDSND program, and the projects were easily the most valuable part of that program. Overall, this ends up being a minor speedbump along the way and really not a big deal at all. Of course, that does beg the question, why is the speedbump there in the first place? 