# Udacity Introduction to SQL Review
**Format:** Each of the Udacity classes consists of several lessons, each with a number of "concepts". Instruction is generally provided in short (1-6 minutes) videos, sometimes with supporting text. Video instruction is often followed with supplemental text, if needed, and practical exercises using plugins to the Udacity site. This allows students to perform operations demonstrated in the video lecture without installing additional software on their own computers. Quizzes usually accompany these practical exercises to provide a "check" that students are executing the demonstrated concepts correctly. 
**Prior Experience With Subject:** This was my first class (not counting the very brief "Command Line Essentials" class) in starting the Programming for Data Science with Python NanoDegree, as a prerequisite for the Data Analysis NanoDegree. I came in to it with no experience with SQL at all, just familiarity with manipulating spreadsheets in Excel.

## Class Grade (1-10): **9**
I really liked the overall setup of the class. The class immediately presented you with an overall scenario for the class of working at a paper company with a large database of various data - sales, customer accounts, marketing efforts, etc. As the course goes about teaching new concepts about using SQL, the student's familiarity with and understanding of this database grows and it creates a great feeling of incremental progress while tackling realistic problems of increasing complexity. I much preferred this to some other formats where students are given esoteric problems without context, which often makes it difficult to figure out a solution because you're busy trying to figure out the *question*. 

There was really only one particular issue that I had with this class. The video demonstrations drove me a little crazy because they were done in night mode (black background) with some portions of the SQL queries in red text (inevitably, the parts that I was trying to pay attention to) which was difficult to see sometimes, even in a dark room, much less a well-lit study area.  Overall though, it was a very good class and I enjoyed it quite a bit.

## Project Grade (1-10): **9**
### Project: *Investigate a Relational Database*
### Number of times project was kicked back for changes: *1*
This project involves taking a new database of video rental data and gives the student an open-ended opportunity to choose their own questions to find the answers to with SQL queries, and to relay their answers in a visual form. These self-generated questions had to meet certain levels of complexity, which necessitated a little creativity on the student's part. I had no idea what to expect here in terms of complexity or involvement going into this, but I was pretty happy with it overall. 

## Overall Grade (1-10): **9**
All around, this was a very good class. I really liked the overall conceit of the class revolving around practical usage of a business database and tackling progressively more involved questions. The class materials were effective, even with my lack of experience with SQL. The concepts that I learned here were very useful throughout the rest of my program, as I often was feeling like "I know how I could do this in SQL, I wish I knew how to do that in Python" and then slowly learned to do so over the rest of the DAND program. I've taken plenty of online courses or MOOC's, and this would be a great standard for some other programs to live up to.
