# Udacity Introduction to Version Control Review
**Format:** Each of the Udacity classes consists of several lessons, each with a number of "concepts". Instruction is generally provided in short (1-6 minutes) videos, sometimes with supporting text. Video instruction is often followed with supplemental text, if needed, and practical exercises using plugins to the Udacity site. In this class, students instead download and install git on their local machine and perform tasks on this. This is a hard requirement for the class.

**Prior Experience With Subject:** In the course of doing [Google's IT Automation/Python class](https://www.coursera.org/professional-certificates/google-it-automation), I had taken their version control course. That course also used Git. I also had understood the problems of version control in collaborative projects from previous work. While the Google course did have some lab elements, I had largely forgotten the practical execution because I hadn't used it since. This was the final course of the Programming for Data Science with Python NanoDegree.

## Class Grade (1-10): **8**
The class material was solid, and I thought it did a really good job of using visual aids to help demonstrate concepts in git. The course had students using git bash to do a variety of tasks, creating and editing repositories locally as well as integrating with GitHub to work with repositories there as well, both belonging to yourself or pulling from a Udacity repository. I also felt like the course did a good job of explaining how collaboration on GitHub is done effectively, walking through subjects like pull requests, issue tracking and assignment, and GitHub etiquette. Throughout the course, students are regularly going through the basic work cycle in git. 

In terms of things that I think the class could've done better, I think I would've liked a larger focus on fixing mistakes with practical applications. While there were some examples of this provided where commits would be reverted or amended, the limitations of some of this weren't clear to me ([leading to an embarassing moment for me on StackOverflow when trying to fix an issue on my project](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/68493547/why-does-git-rebase-reword-keep-making-new-comments)), and I think the ability to fix mistakes is probably the most important thing for giving new programmers the confidence to try new things or start using git regularly. 

## Project Grade (1-10): **8**
### Project: *Post Your Work On Github*
### Number of times project was kicked back for changes: **1**
The project here was to take the program written for the Intro to Python course (Explore US Bikeshare data) completed right before this, and place this work on GitHub and create branches for modifying the program. Once placed on GitHub, students would have to improve their documentation in the script and generate a README.md for the program. Students would then refactor their code, making at least three substantive improvements to the code of their choosing (though some options were provided). I liked this project, as it was a great way to go further with a previous project and continue learning to be a better programmer while also learning to use GitHub. 

One thing that was quite frustrating for me was a lack of specificity within the project rubric and provided details. Throughout the course, several texts were provided on writing good commit messages, and while it was mentioned that "we encourage you to refer to the Udacity Git Commit Message Style Guide", this was not documented as a requirement, nor was it followed in the class materials prior to the project. Upon submitting my project, it was then rejected because my commit messages did not follow the specific Udacity format, which was marked as a requirement in the reviewers' rubric (I've seen on multiple occasions throughout my projects that reviewers have a different and more detailed rubric than the one provided to students, which often omits such requirements). I was given the recommendation to fix my previous commit messages, which led to the above-linked misadventure about trying to re-write history because I didn't realize the limitations of git rebase or git amend. These "surprise!" requirements were very frustrating and should've been made clear in the project details and students' rubric, but is not an uncommon occurrence with Udacity's project grading system. The Udacity style guide is perfectly acceptable, but this was particularly frustrating because the entire course (and my Google course, for that matter) did not follow the conventions of the Udacity style guide, and these could've easily been taught instead. 

## Overall Grade (1-10): **8**
Altogether, the course and project were pretty solid and I was happy with them both. I enjoyed getting to do more work with the bikeshare program from the Intro to Python class, and I actually would've liked it if more of the NanoDegree program was built on expanding this program into something more powerful. I also liked the amount of practical experience I got working in git bash, though it wasn't enough to be *really* comfortable at fixing my own mistakes. That experience came when I took on the extracirricular challenge of putting together this portfolio, which has been a real useful learning experience for really "hammering home" the concepts I learned in this course. 

This class also concluded the Programming for Data Science with Python NanoDegree, a recommended step before doing the Data Analysis NanoDegree, especially for those with less experience. I was quite pleased with the experience across the entire program, and while I felt like there was room for improvement for each class, they all were polished, useful, and generally effective. While online classes are very much "hit or miss" in my experience and can often leave a feeling of "I paid for this?", I never really had that experience with this program, even where I was occasionally frustrated. I paid $99 per month for this program (always wait for a sale!), completing it inside of two months and I felt like it was a good, worthwhile experience that left me feeling a lot more confident of myself and my skills going into the Data Analyst NanoDegree. 