# Udacity Introduction to Python Review
**Format:** Each of the Udacity classes consists of several lessons, each with a number of "concepts". Instruction is generally provided in short (1-6 minutes) videos, sometimes with supporting text. Video instruction is often followed with supplemental text, if needed, and practical exercises using plugins to the Udacity site. This allows students to perform operations demonstrated in the video lecture without installing additional software on their own computers. Quizzes usually accompany these practical exercises to provide a "check" that students are executing the demonstrated concepts correctly. 

**Prior Experience With Subject:** This was my second class in the Programming for Data Science with Python program. I had only started learning programming by learning to program with Python in Jan 2021. I started with Google's [IT Automation/Python](https://www.coursera.org/professional-certificates/google-it-automation) course (*highly* not recommended) and struggled immensely before getting my feet under me a bit better with Mosh Hamedani's [Complete Python Mastery](https://codewithmosh.com/p/python-programming-course-beginners) (recommended) course and Chuck Severance's [Python For Everybody](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/python) (also recommended) MOOC. I had not finished either of those two courses before starting this one. 

## Class Grade (1-10): **6**
Overall, I felt like the class was solid but certainly had room for improvement. I was able to breeze through a chunk of the class with the bit of Python experience I had already gained, but I felt like for a complete beginner with no experience, it might've been moving too fast and would've needed more repetition of basic concepts, or of slightly different applications of concepts they've learned. This is especially important for new students who may not "think like a programmer" yet and are not yet really comfortable with Python's syntax. Something like some other sites have like "If you want more practice, try these exercises!" would've worked really well here, I think, especially if it had solutions and showed its work to arrive at those solutions. Once I caught up to my limited experience level, I felt like the class was moving at a reasonable pace and providing interesting and reasonably approachable problems that were not overly convoluted (that was a big problem with the Google course). 

The course finishes up with learning specifically about NumPy and Pandas, which are heavily used in the subsequent classes in the Data Analysis NanoDegree. These two portions of the class very much felt "tacked on" and less robust than the preceding portions of the class. They weren't particularly lacking, especially in terms of what was going to be done through the class and associated project, but they were definitely somewhat abbreviated. This wasn't so much a problem with completing this class in particular, but it does feel like a missed opportunity in retrospect, with how much these packages get used later on for the DAND program. A lot of things that were more obliquely referenced (sometimes with only a link to a documentation page) in later courses could've been addressed more in depth, here.

## Project Grade (1-10): **8**
### Project: *Explore US Bikeshare Data*
### Number of times project was kicked back for changes: **1**
This project involves creating a text-based program allowing a user to explore bikeshare data from three CSV's, each with data from a different US city. When I first looked at this project, I was immediately a bit freaked out at the scope of it, because the requirements for the program's execution, options, etc. were somewhat intimidating and this was far beyond anything I'd written before. Udacity provides an *excellent* template that allows the user to focus more on building functional code within the template provided, rather than getting stuck on trying to build the whole thing at once. Once I dug into the project, I quickly started to realize that it really was within my abilities to complete, and I actually enjoyed it quite a bit. It did a very good job of being challenging for my skill level, without being overwhelming.

I did have one particular issue with the project process. Projects are submitted and reviewed by a mentor (in every occasion I've submitted a project, it's reviewed and feedback provided within 4 hours). I built my program a certain way, applying filters for the user by using the letter of the month (J, F, M, A...) rather than number (1, 2, 3, 4...), as the project required such a filtering mechanism but made no recommendation of how to do so. My first reviewer on this project rejected my program as not meeting specifications because the filter was "broken" and did not take numeric input. I was very upset at the prospect of refactoring several other areas of my code to accomodate what I suspected was a script being used by that reviewer to quickly and easily check submissions, despite having no requirement in the rubric to handle the filtering in this way. I resubmitted the same program with an explanation of this, and another reviewer accepted my program as meeting specifications. The second reviewer also provided very in depth and personalized recommendations on how my working code could be improved further, alternative approaches to the ones I used, etc. While I had a poor experience with the first reviewer, I had an excellent experience with my second reviewer and learned a lot from their constructive criticism, even though my project was accepted as having met specifications.

## Overall Grade (1-10): **7**
All in all, this was a pretty solid class. I was a little worried going into it because I hadn't touched Python much in the previous 2-3 months (working on other classes), but once I got into it I quickly got comfortable. I did take VERY detailed notes in Jupyter Notebooks on Pandas and NumPy in particular, which I would highly recommend for anyone continuing on to the DAND program - I re-used those notes extensively in the subsequent classes. These notes were not just restricted to things I learned in the class, but also often to how I'd solved other problems so that I could reuse the solution without having to hunt down the same answer on Stack Overflow or check my syntax on someone else's code. The project was quite intimidating, but in the end it struck an excellent balance between being challenging enough to make me grow, without being so challenging that I felt overwhelmed, even as a relative newbie to Python and programming in general.
