# Udacity Introduction to Data Analysis Review
**Format:** Each of the Udacity classes consists of several lessons, each with a number of "concepts". Instruction is generally provided in short (1-6 minutes) videos, sometimes with supporting text. Video instruction is often followed with supplemental text, if needed, and practical exercises using plugins to the Udacity site. This allows students to perform operations demonstrated in the video lecture without installing additional software on their own computers. Quizzes usually accompany these practical exercises to provide a "check" that students are executing the demonstrated concepts correctly. 

**Prior Experience With Subject:** I had just finished up the Programming for Data Science with Python Nanodegree (PDSND)and completed the "Welcome" project in the Data Analyst NanoDegree (DAND). With regard to data science at large, I was aware of some of the concepts at issue, but I didn't really have much experience or direct knowledge of them.  

## Class Grade (1-10): **6**
This class is largely built to provide an overview of the data analysis process and give students some familiarity and understanding of each step in the process. This includes installation of Anaconda and learning to use Jupyter Notebooks (if you didn't already do this optional lesson in the Programming for Data Science NanoDegree), which will be used extensively throughout the remainder of the program. After leaning about the overall process of gathering data, wrangling operations, exploratory data analysis, and then explanatory data analysis, several guided case studies are presented. Throughout the entire class, students work in a series of Jupyter Notebooks to complete each step of the process. 

This class (and the entire DAND program) use Python's pandas package extensively, and I was a bit frustrated with feeling like the prior instruction on pandas (provided in a lesson in the PSDND program) was really not extensive enough for the operations I wanted to do with pandas. I actually ended up slowing down at one point in this class and spent two days putting together an extensive Jupyter Notebook filled with notes and examples on how to do a lot of different common operations with Pandas. A huge help with this was [this particuar portion of the pandas documentation](https://pandas.pydata.org/docs/getting_started/comparison/comparison_with_sql.html). I find a lot of the pandas documentation to be somewhat frustrating, but this outlined how to do a number of SQL operations (which I felt very good about) in pandas, which was super useful and frankly should've been covered in more detail in the class. Once I put together these notes and had built up a larger familiarity with pandas, I breezed through the rest of the class.

In comparison to the other classes in the DAND program, this one seemed and felt like it was newer than the other classes. This may be incorrect on my part, but it did seem like the class was more polished overall than the subsequent classes.  There was one glaring omission from this course that was particularly frustrating throughout the rest of the DAND program, though. This class provided some basic instruction on data visualization, mostly using things like pandas' plot() function. It touched very briefly on matplotlib and seaborn, but it really didn't provide much in regard to how these things interact with each other or how to add polish to a plot (titles, axis labels, etc.), as it was more focused on exploratory data analysis. This would be fine, if every other class project throughout the rest of the program (including this one!) did not require polished plots, when this was not taught until the last class of the NanoDegree.  

## Project Grade (1-10): **7**
### Project: *Investigate a Dataset*
### Number of times project was kicked back for changes: **1**
The project for this class was to take one of several datasets provided and perform the entire data analysis process on it - cleaning the data (my dataset required *extensive* cleaning), doing an exploratory data analysis, and then doing an explanatory data analysis, including visualizations. This was a good project, and I found it very interesting and beneficial, but I did find it to be too advanced for where it was placed in the course. I know that I put more effort into the project than I necessarily needed to, but considering the amount of effort that was spent in cleaning the data or visualizing the data before I'd actually taken the classes specifically focused on those subjects, it seemed somewhat unreasonable. I persevered and made it through, and because of the work I did on this project, my subsequent projects were made easier, but it seemed like the nature of this project would've made it a more appropriate program capstone rather than an assessment for a class named "Introduction to Data Analysis". 

My project submission was initially rejected because my explanatory plots were not sufficiently polished with titles, labels, etc. As mentioned, the plotting taught in the course was brief and of an exploratory nature, without applying polish as you would to an outward-facing explanatory analysis. More frustrating was that this requirement is listed on the reviewer's rubric (they send pictures of the relevant parts of the rubric that you've failed to satisfy), but this is not included on the student's version of the project rubric. This is a consistent problem that I saw throughout my Udacity projects, and while it was not a big deal in the long run, it is irritating and unnecessarily wastes time for everyone involved. I should highlight that my reviewer was fantastic - they provided extensive and personalized feedback that was highly detailed. This feedback was not just focused on what I did wrong but also things I did well or alternative approaches to some of my scripting. Reviewers are, however, bound by the reviewer rubric, which should not be different than the rubric accessible to students. 

## Overall Grade (1-10): **6**
The gist of this class is that it is supposed to prepare you to tackle the rest of the classes in the DAND program, giving the student a solid foundation to build upon. In terms of whether or not the class met this goal, I'd have to say "somewhat". It's certainly informative about data analysis as a whole, but I feel like it really failed to give students an adequate instruction with pandas that is absolutely necessary both in the class project but also throughout the other courses in this NanoDegree. The notes that I put together and to some extent self-taught ended up being useful in every other class, and much of this (*especially* the SQL-like functions) was not covered in the class, or was only briefly touched on. In conjunction with a project that felt like it was *vastly* more complex and involved than anything that was done in the class, the main feeling that I have is that the class wasn't necessarily bad, but mostly I feel that the class represents a tremendous missed opportunity to have been something really great. 