# Udacity Practical Statistics Review
**Format:** Each of the Udacity classes consists of several lessons, each with a number of "concepts". Instruction is generally provided in short (1-6 minutes) videos, sometimes with supporting text. Video instruction is often followed with supplemental text, if needed, and practical exercises using plugins to the Udacity site. This allows students to perform operations demonstrated in the video lecture without installing additional software on their own computers. Quizzes usually accompany these practical exercises to provide a "check" that students are executing the demonstrated concepts correctly. 
**Prior Experience With Subject:** I had completed a college algebra class and a traditional statistics course on Sophia Learning a few months prior. While statistics was a bit tough, I had taken extensive notes that I thought would be more help in this class. This wasn't really the case though, as this class was very much not a traditional statistics class and was more of a class focused on statistics and programming. 

## Class Grade (1-10): **1**
This class was, undoubtedly, the most frustrating and problematic course in either the Programming for Data Science NanoDegree (PSDND) or Data Analysis NanoDegree (DAND). There were more polished sections of the class that felt like they were constructed for this program and were more explanatory, and these sections of the class focused more on concepts or on teaching programmatic elements of gathering or generating statistics. Between these more polished sections were very amateur-ish and poorly done videos where someone named Sebastian attempts to teach more traditional statistics concepts. Honestly, I had felt like these videos were from another platform and being used by Udacity, until I realized later that Sebastian was actually a Udacity founder. 

These videos with Sebastian were *awful*, being often confusing because of their illegibility and poorly explaining the concepts. It very much felt like the videos selected for inclusion in this program were part of a larger set, where the parts harvested left out necessary context or explanation from the excluded videos. The quizzes that were a part of these lessons lacked context and explanation. I would often answer a question and be told if I was right or wrong, and what the right answer was, but I would very often not be told *why* it was the right answer or how it was calculated. In my estimation, this is the worst thing any math class can do, as it leaves students unable to diagnose or understand their own mistakes and they are instead left bewildered and confused. Fluke correct answers leave the student unaware of their mistake, and students who are struggling end up lacking the context to help them through this difficulty. 

The more polished portion of the class was occasionally useful, particularly in its explanation of concepts, but the programming portion of the class was woefully inadequate. Generating distributions was done in every single example in the course with a 'for' loop, which is computationally inefficient but does work. In the class project (and this applies to other projects as well), the rubric specifies that vectorized operations must be used in place of for/while loops because of this inefficiency, but this was never taught in this class (or in the preceding classes). Fortunately, detailed notes from a reviewer helped me learn to use these vectorized operations effectively. As the class progressed to more advanced concepts of generating linear regressions, multilinear regressions, and logistic regressions, the class materials became less polished and explanatory, even though the concepts being introduced were becoming more complex. Particularly galling was a tendency to for the videos to quickly paste in and execute large sections of code in a notebook (performing operations that we would be expected to do as well) without explaining the code that was dropped in. On a couple of occasions, this would later be explained by later lessons (after you've already been blindly using the code by copying it from the videos), but usually no such explanation was forthcoming. 

This class was very much a "just try to get through it" type of class. Far more than with the other classes in either the PDSND or DAND programs, I spent a lot of time on the Udacity Knowledge Forum, occasionally asking my own questions, or more often sifting through prior student's questions to try to gather an explanation for the things the class wasn't explaining. While many of the mentors in the Knowledge Forum are very knowledgeable and helpful, the forum itself is messy and poorly organized, making it difficult to find the truly useful explanations.

## Project Grade (1-10): **2**
### Project: *Analyze A/B Test Results*
### Number of times project was kicked back for changes: *1*
After a miserable class, I was hopeful that the project would be better. It was, but only in the way that a kick in the shin is better than a kick in the mouth. This project was *highly* structured, in a way that no other project across the PDSND and DAND programs was. Broken into three distinct sections, the project asks you to do very specific things with a dataset and provide very specific answers, which is about what would be expected for a math class. The first problem that arose was that the instructions were very confusingly written, especially in the second and third sections, to such an extent that I had to consult with the Knowledge Forum quite a bit just to understand what was being asked for. 

As it turned out, one of the reasons why the directions were confusing in this section is because they were actually wanting students to perform operations in ways different than what had been shown throughout the class. This was not just in the sense of the vectorized operations vs loops issue addressed above, but actually in the sense of generating other observations about the data. While it is certainly useful to know more than one way to approach or solve a problem, the point of an assessment like this is to verify the student's understanding and knowledge of the material presented in the class. If something was not presented in the class (or a class foundational to the one currently being taken), it hardly seems reasonable or useful to assess the student's knowledge of the unrelated concept. 

The class then goes on to suddenly drop in an instruction to the student to use the `stats.proportions_ztest` from the `statsmodels.api` package to calculate a test statistic. At no point in this class or any other was this package used or explained, nor was the z_test function. For that matter, while p-values were explained, z-scores were never discussed or even referred to. The only explanation or instruction given alongside this instruction was a [link to the documentation page for the function](https://www.statsmodels.org/stable/generated/statsmodels.stats.proportion.proportions_ztest.html). This sort of thing occurred on several occasions during this course (and the Data Wrangling course), and I genuinely laughed out loud when a lesson in the Data Visualization course commented on how this is an inadequate approach to instruction and provided additional instruction about a subject. If it were this easy, everyone would be expert programmers with just a link to a programming language's manual!

Again, the Knowledge Forum was the real life saver for this project, as it was for the class. The Knowledge Forum itself has some significant issues, but truthfully, without some of the code and the explanations that I was able to dig up on the knowledge forum, I would've been hard pressed to 

## Overall Grade (1-10): **1**
As discussed above, this class was absolutely miserable. This was quite a shock, as I was really impressed with most of my Udacity courses to this point. Even where I had problems with the previous class in the DAND program (Intro to Data Science), the omissions of class content were nowhere near as glaring as in this class, and the class was nonetheless polished and coherently put together. While there are Udacity classes have redeeming factors that could simply be revised to create a new and satisfying class, I don't believe that there is any way to do that with this particular class and that the only solution would be an entirely new class experience. One of the impressions that I got throughout the class is that it was either an older class, likely on a list to be redone at some point, or it was an improvised cobbling together of multiple classes to create something that was necessary for the DAND program. Either option is completely unacceptable as a course, especially one that people are paying for. 